SPEAKER_01: Hello everyone can you hear me okay testing testing

SPEAKER_02: Yes I can hear you fine Margaret

SPEAKER_03: Audio sounds good on my end

SPEAKER_01: Wonderful okay let me just get my notes organized here while we wait for everyone to join

SPEAKER_04: Oh absolutely the tomatoes are really coming along nicely this year

SPEAKER_05: My kids have been asking when they can start picking the strawberries

SPEAKER_04: I think another week or two and they should be ready

SPEAKER_03: Speaking of the garden didn't we have some issues with people not following the watering schedule

SPEAKER_04: Yeah there were a few complaints but I think we sorted that out with the new signage

SPEAKER_01: Good good okay shall we get started with the official meeting

SPEAKER_02: Sounds good

SPEAKER_01: Alright everyone the May 2025 board meeting for Willow Creek Community Association is now called to order at seven oh five PM on May fifteenth twenty twenty five

SPEAKER_03: Should I note that we have all six board members present

SPEAKER_01: Yes please do Sarah and also note that we have a quorum

SPEAKER_03: Got it

SPEAKER_01: Our first order of business is to approve the minutes from our April meeting did everyone have a chance to review them

SPEAKER_02: I did and they look accurate to me

SPEAKER_05: Same here no issues

SPEAKER_06: I wasn't at that meeting obviously but I read through them

SPEAKER_04: Actually I had one small correction on page two where it says I mentioned the sprinkler system in zone three but I think I was talking about zone four

SPEAKER_03: Oh you're right let me make that correction

SPEAKER_04: Thanks Sarah

SPEAKER_01: Any other corrections or additions

SPEAKER_02: Nope looks good

SPEAKER_01: All in favor of approving the minutes with David's correction

SPEAKER_02: Aye

SPEAKER_03: Aye

SPEAKER_04: Aye

SPEAKER_05: Aye

SPEAKER_06: Aye

SPEAKER_01: Aye motion carries unanimously

SPEAKER_01: Next up is our financial report Sarah can you walk us through the numbers

SPEAKER_03: Absolutely so as of April thirtieth we have a total of forty seven thousand eight hundred and thirty two dollars in our operating account

SPEAKER_02: That's up from last month right

SPEAKER_03: Yes we were at forty three thousand in March so we're in good shape the increase is mainly due to the quarterly HOA fees coming in

SPEAKER_04: What about our reserve fund

SPEAKER_03: Reserve fund is sitting at one hundred and twelve thousand four hundred dollars

SPEAKER_05: Excellent

SPEAKER_03: We did have some unexpected expenses this month though the pool heater repair cost us twenty eight hundred dollars

SPEAKER_01: Ouch that's more than we budgeted

SPEAKER_03: Right we had budgeted fifteen hundred for pool maintenance but this was a major repair

SPEAKER_02: Is the pool heater working properly now

SPEAKER_03: Yes it's been running smoothly since the repair

SPEAKER_06: When did this happen I don't remember seeing any notices

SPEAKER_05: It was pretty quick David our maintenance guy caught it early and we got it fixed within two days

SPEAKER_06: Oh okay good

SPEAKER_03: We also had our annual insurance premium come due which was six thousand two hundred dollars

SPEAKER_01: That's about what we expected right

SPEAKER_03: Yes actually it was fifty dollars less than last year

SPEAKER_02: That's a pleasant surprise

SPEAKER_03: Our landscaping costs were right on budget at four thousand for the month

SPEAKER_04: Actually can we talk about that I think we need to discuss adding some additional plantings near the entrance

SPEAKER_01: Let's table that for now David and come back to it under new business

SPEAKER_04: Sure thing

SPEAKER_03: Any questions on the financial report

SPEAKER_05: The numbers all look reasonable to me

SPEAKER_02: I'm comfortable with where we stand financially

SPEAKER_01: Great thanks Sarah let's move on to committee reports David can you start with landscaping

SPEAKER_04: Sure thing so as I mentioned the community garden is doing really well we've had great participation this year

SPEAKER_05: How many families are participating now

SPEAKER_04: We're up to twenty three families which is the most we've ever had

SPEAKER_02: That's fantastic

SPEAKER_04: The spring cleanup went well too we had about fifteen volunteers show up which was decent turnout

SPEAKER_03: I helped with that and it really made a difference

SPEAKER_04: Definitely the common areas look much better now

SPEAKER_01: Any ongoing issues with the landscaping

SPEAKER_04: Well there's the ongoing problem with the sprinkler system in the front entrance area

SPEAKER_02: What's the issue there

SPEAKER_04: Some of the sprinkle heads are broken and others aren't providing even coverage

SPEAKER_03: Do we have an estimate for fixing that

SPEAKER_04: I got a quote from our landscaping company for twelve hundred dollars

SPEAKER_01: That seems reasonable

SPEAKER_02: I agree we should get that fixed before summer really kicks in

SPEAKER_06: Is that something we need to vote on

SPEAKER_01: For twelve hundred dollars I think we can approve it under our maintenance budget authority

SPEAKER_03: I'll make a note to get that scheduled

SPEAKER_04: Great I also wanted to bring up the entrance landscaping again

SPEAKER_01: Right you mentioned that earlier what did you have in mind

SPEAKER_04: I think we should add some seasonal color plants maybe some annuals that we can change out

SPEAKER_05: That sounds nice what kind of cost are we looking at

SPEAKER_04: I'm thinking maybe three to five hundred dollars for the initial planting

SPEAKER_02: That doesn't sound too bad

SPEAKER_06: Would this be something we do every season

SPEAKER_04: Ideally yes but we could start with just spring and summer and see how it goes

SPEAKER_01: Why don't you get some specific proposals and we can discuss it next month

SPEAKER_04: Will do

SPEAKER_01: Lisa can you give us the communications report

SPEAKER_05: Sure so our newsletter went out last week and we got some good feedback

SPEAKER_02: I saw that it looked really professional

SPEAKER_05: Thanks I've been trying to improve the layout and content

SPEAKER_03: What kind of feedback did we get

SPEAKER_05: Mostly positive people really liked the spotlight on the community garden and the reminder about pool rules

SPEAKER_06: Speaking of pool rules are we having any issues there

SPEAKER_05: Actually yes we've had a few complaints about people not following the guest policy

SPEAKER_01: What kind of complaints

SPEAKER_05: Some residents are bringing large groups of guests without registering them first

SPEAKER_02: How many people are we talking about

SPEAKER_05: I think the biggest group was around eight or nine people

SPEAKER_03: That's definitely too many for the guest policy

SPEAKER_01: Our policy allows what two guests per household

SPEAKER_05: Right two guests unless you get prior approval from the board

SPEAKER_04: Maybe we need better signage at the pool

SPEAKER_05: That's a good idea I can work on that

SPEAKER_01: Let's also send out a reminder in the next newsletter

SPEAKER_05: I'll include that

SPEAKER_02: Any other communication issues

SPEAKER_05: We've been getting more engagement on our Facebook page which is nice

SPEAKER_06: What kind of engagement

SPEAKER_05: People posting photos from community events asking questions about policies that sort of thing

SPEAKER_01: That's good it shows people are paying attention

SPEAKER_05: I think so too it makes my job easier when people are informed

SPEAKER_03: Are we still planning to update the website

SPEAKER_05: Yes that's still on my to do list I'm hoping to have something ready by the next meeting

SPEAKER_01: Great thanks Lisa Tom do you have anything to report

SPEAKER_06: Not really since I'm still pretty new but I've been walking around the community trying to get a feel for things

SPEAKER_02: That's smart what are your impressions

SPEAKER_06: Overall things look really good the common areas are well maintained and most people seem happy

SPEAKER_01: Any areas of concern

SPEAKER_06: I did notice that some of the playground equipment could use some attention

SPEAKER_04: What kind of attention

SPEAKER_06: Just some general maintenance maybe a fresh coat of paint on a few things

SPEAKER_03: We should probably have that inspected annually anyway

SPEAKER_01: Good point Sarah can you look into scheduling a playground inspection

SPEAKER_03: Sure I'll add that to my list

SPEAKER_01: Robert do you have any vice president updates

SPEAKER_02: Just one thing I've been working with our attorney on updating some of our governing documents

SPEAKER_05: Which documents specifically

SPEAKER_02: Mainly the CC and Rs we have some language that's outdated and could cause confusion

SPEAKER_01: What kind of updates are we talking about

SPEAKER_02: Nothing major mostly clarifying some of the architectural review processes and updating the enforcement procedures

SPEAKER_06: How long does that process usually take

SPEAKER_02: Our attorney said probably two to three months once we give him the go ahead

SPEAKER_03: What's the cost for that

SPEAKER_02: He quoted us thirty five hundred dollars

SPEAKER_01: That's pretty steep

SPEAKER_02: It is but these documents haven't been updated in almost ten years

SPEAKER_04: Are there specific issues that are causing problems

SPEAKER_02: We've had a few disputes about fence heights and what requires architectural approval

SPEAKER_05: I remember getting questions about that

SPEAKER_02: Right having clearer language would help avoid those disputes

SPEAKER_01: I think it's probably worth the investment

SPEAKER_03: I agree

SPEAKER_06: Should we vote on this

SPEAKER_01: Let's table it for now and revisit it under new business

SPEAKER_02: That works

SPEAKER_01: Okay let's move on to old business first item is the pool furniture replacement

SPEAKER_03: Right we approved this last month but I wanted to give an update

SPEAKER_05: How did the ordering go

SPEAKER_03: Good news the furniture arrived last week and it's already set up

SPEAKER_02: How does it look

SPEAKER_03: Really nice much better than the old stuff

SPEAKER_04: I walked by yesterday and it does look great

SPEAKER_06: What did we end up spending on that

SPEAKER_03: Final cost was four thousand two hundred dollars which was under our approved budget of five thousand

SPEAKER_01: Excellent any issues with the delivery or setup

SPEAKER_03: None at all very smooth process

SPEAKER_01: Great let's mark that as completed

SPEAKER_01: Next old business item is the parking situation on Maple Street

SPEAKER_02: Are we still having problems there

SPEAKER_05: It's gotten a little better but we still have some issues

SPEAKER_04: What kind of issues

SPEAKER_05: People parking on the street instead of using their driveways or garages

SPEAKER_06: Is that against our rules

SPEAKER_01: Not exactly but it does create traffic flow problems

SPEAKER_02: Especially when people park on both sides of the street

SPEAKER_03: Have we considered putting up no parking signs

SPEAKER_05: We looked into that but since it's a private street we'd need approval from the city

SPEAKER_01: That sounds complicated

SPEAKER_04: What if we just sent out a reminder about parking courtesy

SPEAKER_05: We could include that in the newsletter

SPEAKER_02: I think that's a good first step

SPEAKER_01: Agreed let's try the gentle approach first

SPEAKER_05: I'll draft something for the next newsletter

SPEAKER_01: The last old business item is the clubhouse rental policy

SPEAKER_03: We discussed possibly changing the deposit amount

SPEAKER_02: Right currently it's two hundred dollars

SPEAKER_06: What are we thinking of changing it to

SPEAKER_03: Maybe three hundred dollars

SPEAKER_04: What's the reasoning behind the increase

SPEAKER_03: We've had a few incidents where the deposit didn't cover the cleanup costs

SPEAKER_05: How much were those cleanup costs

SPEAKER_03: The worst one was four hundred and fifty dollars

SPEAKER_02: Ouch what happened there

SPEAKER_03: Let's just say someone's teenager had a party that got a little out of hand

SPEAKER_01: I remember that incident

SPEAKER_06: So three hundred would still leave us short in cases like that

SPEAKER_03: True but I think five hundred might be too high and discourage rentals

SPEAKER_04: What do other HOAs charge

SPEAKER_05: I can research that if you want

SPEAKER_01: That would be helpful Lisa

SPEAKER_05: I'll have something for next meeting

SPEAKER_01: Perfect let's table this until we have more data

SPEAKER_01: Now let's move to new business first item is the architectural review for the Johnson's fence

SPEAKER_02: This came up at the last architectural review committee meeting

SPEAKER_03: What are they proposing

SPEAKER_02: They want to install a six foot privacy fence along their back property line

SPEAKER_04: Is that within our guidelines

SPEAKER_02: Our current guidelines allow up to six feet in the backyard

SPEAKER_06: So what's the issue

SPEAKER_02: The issue is that their backyard adjoins the common area and some people think it will block the view

SPEAKER_05: Have the neighbors complained

SPEAKER_02: We've received two letters of concern

SPEAKER_01: What do the letters say

SPEAKER_02: Mainly that it will create a visual barrier and might set a precedent for other similar requests

SPEAKER_03: But if it's within our guidelines

SPEAKER_02: Right that's the dilemma

SPEAKER_04: Have you seen the proposed location

SPEAKER_02: Yes I walked the property line last week

SPEAKER_01: What's your assessment

SPEAKER_02: Honestly it's not going to significantly impact the common area view

SPEAKER_06: Then I don't see the problem

SPEAKER_05: Did you talk to the Johnsons about maybe reducing the height

SPEAKER_02: They said they need the full six feet for privacy from the walking path

SPEAKER_03: That seems reasonable

SPEAKER_01: I think if it's within our guidelines we should approve it

SPEAKER_04: I agree

SPEAKER_02: Should we put it to a vote

SPEAKER_01: All in favor of approving the Johnson fence request

SPEAKER_02: Aye

SPEAKER_03: Aye

SPEAKER_04: Aye

SPEAKER_05: Aye

SPEAKER_06: Aye

SPEAKER_01: Aye motion carries unanimously

SPEAKER_02: I'll let them know

SPEAKER_01: Next new business item is the proposal to install security cameras

SPEAKER_05: This came up in the online community forum

SPEAKER_03: What kind of cameras are we talking about

SPEAKER_05: The suggestion was to install cameras at the entrance and maybe a few other common areas

SPEAKER_06: What's driving this request

SPEAKER_05: We've had a few incidents of vandalism and some package thefts

SPEAKER_02: Package thefts aren't really an HOA issue though

SPEAKER_05: True but the vandalism is

SPEAKER_04: What kind of vandalism

SPEAKER_05: Graffiti on the mailbox cluster and someone damaged the playground equipment

SPEAKER_01: I didn't hear about the playground damage

SPEAKER_06: That might have been what I noticed during my walkthrough

SPEAKER_05: It was pretty minor but still concerning

SPEAKER_03: What would cameras cost

SPEAKER_05: I got a preliminary quote of about eight thousand dollars for a basic system

SPEAKER_02: That seems like a lot

SPEAKER_04: What does that include

SPEAKER_05: Four cameras with recording capability and cloud storage for thirty days

SPEAKER_01: Are there any legal issues we need to consider

SPEAKER_02: Good question I'd want to check with our attorney

SPEAKER_03: That's more legal fees

SPEAKER_02: Probably just a few hundred dollars for a consultation

SPEAKER_06: Before we spend money on legal advice shouldn't we decide if we even want cameras

SPEAKER_01: That's a good point

SPEAKER_05: I think we should at least consider it the vandalism is getting worse

SPEAKER_04: Is it though we've only had a few incidents

SPEAKER_05: True but I'd rather be proactive

SPEAKER_02: What do other communities do

SPEAKER_05: Most of the newer developments have some kind of security system

SPEAKER_03: But they probably planned for that from the beginning

SPEAKER_01: Why don't we form a committee to research this more thoroughly

SPEAKER_06: I'd be willing to serve on that committee

SPEAKER_05: Me too

SPEAKER_04: I can help as well

SPEAKER_01: Great so Lisa Tom and David will look into security options and report back next month

SPEAKER_05: Should we get actual quotes

SPEAKER_01: Yes and also research what other HOAs are doing

SPEAKER_02: And maybe survey the community to see what residents think

SPEAKER_05: Good idea

SPEAKER_01: The next new business item is the summer event planning

SPEAKER_05: We need to start planning our annual summer barbecue

SPEAKER_03: When are we thinking of having it

SPEAKER_05: Traditionally it's been the first Saturday in July

SPEAKER_04: That would be July fifth this year

SPEAKER_06: Isn't that close to the fourth of July

SPEAKER_05: Yeah but people seem to like the long weekend

SPEAKER_02: What did we spend last year

SPEAKER_03: I think it was around two thousand dollars

SPEAKER_05: That sounds right

SPEAKER_01: Are we planning the same format

SPEAKER_05: I was thinking we could mix it up a little this year

SPEAKER_04: How so

SPEAKER_05: Maybe add some activities for the kids

SPEAKER_06: Like what

SPEAKER_05: Face painting bounce house that sort of thing

SPEAKER_03: That sounds like it would increase the cost

SPEAKER_05: Probably by a few hundred dollars

SPEAKER_02: I think it's worth it if it gets more families involved

SPEAKER_01: We had pretty good attendance last year

SPEAKER_05: About sixty people

SPEAKER_04: Adding kid activities might bring in more families

SPEAKER_06: Do we need to vote on the budget

SPEAKER_01: Let's set a budget of twenty five hundred dollars

SPEAKER_03: That should cover the extras

SPEAKER_05: Perfect I'll start making arrangements

SPEAKER_01: Do you need help with planning

SPEAKER_05: I could use some volunteers for setup and cleanup

SPEAKER_06: I can help with that

SPEAKER_04: Me too

SPEAKER_02: Put me down for cleanup

SPEAKER_01: Great thanks everyone

SPEAKER_01: Our last new business item is the discussion about updating the CC and Rs that Robert mentioned earlier

SPEAKER_02: Right so we talked about this briefly but I wanted to get everyone's thoughts

SPEAKER_03: The thirty five hundred dollar cost is my main concern

SPEAKER_04: What happens if we don't update them

SPEAKER_02: We'll probably continue to have disputes about unclear language

SPEAKER_01: How often do these disputes come up

SPEAKER_02: We've had maybe four or five in the past year

SPEAKER_05: That seems like a lot

SPEAKER_06: What kind of disputes

SPEAKER_02: Mostly about what requires architectural approval

SPEAKER_04: Like the fence issue we just discussed

SPEAKER_02: Exactly

SPEAKER_03: If clearer language prevents disputes it might save money in the long run

SPEAKER_01: How so

SPEAKER_03: Less attorney consultation fees and administrative time

SPEAKER_02: That's a good point

SPEAKER_05: Plus it reduces friction with residents

SPEAKER_06: I think we should do it

SPEAKER_04: I agree

SPEAKER_01: Let's put it to a vote all in favor of authorizing the CC and R update at a cost not to exceed thirty five hundred dollars

SPEAKER_02: Aye

SPEAKER_03: Aye

SPEAKER_04: Aye

SPEAKER_05: Aye

SPEAKER_06: Aye

SPEAKER_01: Aye motion carries unanimously

SPEAKER_02: I'll contact our attorney tomorrow

SPEAKER_01: Perfect

SPEAKER_01: Is there any other new business

SPEAKER_06: I had one small thing

SPEAKER_01: Go ahead Tom

SPEAKER_06: I noticed that some of the street signs are looking pretty faded

SPEAKER_04: Which ones specifically

SPEAKER_06: The ones on Oak Street and I think Birch Avenue

SPEAKER_05: I've noticed that too

SPEAKER_03: What's involved in replacing those

SPEAKER_01: I think the city handles street signs

SPEAKER_02: Actually I think those are private streets so they're our responsibility

SPEAKER_04: How much do street signs cost

SPEAKER_03: I have no idea

SPEAKER_06: I can research that if you want

SPEAKER_01: That would be great Tom

SPEAKER_06: I'll report back next month

SPEAKER_01: Any other new business

SPEAKER_05: Actually one more thing

SPEAKER_01: What's that Lisa

SPEAKER_05: I've been getting questions about allowing food trucks at community events

SPEAKER_02: Food trucks

SPEAKER_05: Yeah like having a food truck come to the summer barbecue instead of catering

SPEAKER_03: That's an interesting idea

SPEAKER_04: Might be less expensive too

SPEAKER_01: We'd need to check if that's allowed under our current permits

SPEAKER_05: Good point I didn't think about permits

SPEAKER_02: Let's research that for next year

SPEAKER_05: Okay

SPEAKER_01: Anything else

SPEAKER_03: I don't think so

SPEAKER_02: Nope

SPEAKER_01: Alright then let's move to resident comments

SPEAKER_01: We have one resident who submitted a comment in advance Mrs Patterson on Elm Street

SPEAKER_03: What did she say

SPEAKER_01: She wanted to thank the board for the new pool furniture and ask about the possibility of adding shade structures

SPEAKER_04: Shade structures

SPEAKER_01: Like umbrellas or maybe a permanent shade structure

SPEAKER_05: That actually sounds like a good idea

SPEAKER_02: What would something like that cost

SPEAKER_04: Umbrellas would be pretty affordable permanent structures would be more expensive

SPEAKER_03: How much more expensive

SPEAKER_04: Maybe a few thousand dollars depending on the size

SPEAKER_06: We just spent money on pool furniture though

SPEAKER_01: True but we could consider it for next year's budget

SPEAKER_05: I think it's worth looking into

SPEAKER_02: Arizona gets pretty hot in the summer

SPEAKER_04: I can get some quotes for different options

SPEAKER_01: That would be helpful David

SPEAKER_01: Any other resident comments

SPEAKER_05: No one else submitted anything in advance

SPEAKER_01: Okay then let's set our next meeting date

SPEAKER_03: Same time next month

SPEAKER_01: So that would be June nineteenth at seven PM

SPEAKER_02: That works for me

SPEAKER_04: Me too

SPEAKER_05: I'll be out of town that week

SPEAKER_01: What about June twelfth

SPEAKER_05: That works better

SPEAKER_06: Fine with me

SPEAKER_03: June twelfth it is

SPEAKER_01: Before we adjourn does anyone have any final thoughts or concerns

SPEAKER_02: I think we covered everything pretty well

SPEAKER_06: This was a good meeting for my first one

SPEAKER_01: Glad to hear it Tom

SPEAKER_04: I'm excited to get started on the security research

SPEAKER_05: Me too

SPEAKER_03: I'll get those financial reports updated with tonight's decisions

SPEAKER_01: Perfect thanks everyone

SPEAKER_01: If there's nothing else I'll entertain a motion to adjourn

SPEAKER_02: I move to adjourn

SPEAKER_03: I second

SPEAKER_01: All in favor

SPEAKER_02: Aye

SPEAKER_03: Aye

SPEAKER_04: Aye

SPEAKER_05: Aye

SPEAKER_06: Aye

SPEAKER_01: Aye meeting adjourned at eight twenty three PM

SPEAKER_02: Thanks everyone

SPEAKER_03: Good meeting

SPEAKER_04: See you all next month

SPEAKER_05: Bye everyone

SPEAKER_06: Thanks again for welcoming me

SPEAKER_01: Of course Tom drive safely everyone

SPEAKER_02: You too Margaret

SPEAKER_03: Actually wait I forgot to mention

SPEAKER_01: What's that Sarah

SPEAKER_03: The pool company called about scheduling the quarterly cleaning

SPEAKER_02: When do they want to do it

SPEAKER_03: Next Tuesday morning

SPEAKER_01: That should be fine

SPEAKER_04: Will the pool be closed

SPEAKER_03: Just for a few hours

SPEAKER_05: I'll put a notice on the website

SPEAKER_03: Thanks Lisa

SPEAKER_01: Okay now we can really adjourn

SPEAKER_02: Haha yes

SPEAKER_03: Sorry about that

SPEAKER_04: No problem good to get everything handled

SPEAKER_05: Alright everyone have a good night

SPEAKER_06: You too

SPEAKER_01: Good night all

